fix LUD-18 because it was breaking implementations. (#101)
btcontract/lnurl-rfc: 18.md

LUD-18: Payer identity in `payRequest` protocol.
================================================

`author: akumaigorodski` `author: hampus_s` `author: fiatjaf`

---

> ## 1. Specifying payer identity before sending a payment

Reviewer: I think this section should be moved after `## 2. PayerIDs record`. It makes more sense that the specs first define the `SERVICE`'s request, then how the `WALLET` handles that (which is by adding a new `payerid` param to the callback).

Maybe a introduction could be added to give the rationale about all this (which would be, letting `SERVICE` attach a real-world id to the payer).

LUD-18: Payer identity in `payRequest` protocol.
================================================

`author: akumaigorodski` `author: hampus_s` `author: fiatjaf`

---

The idea here is that the payer can identify itself when paying. The scope varies from free-form names (or [LUD-16](16.md) internet identifiers) useful for loose identification in comments or similar things, to cryptographic keys for proof of payment, to authentication keys for future login into a `SERVICE`'s website after a payment and other use cases.

Aside from that, the payer ids are also committed to the invoice by means of the `descriptionHash` property, which ensures strong cryptographic guarantees for proof of payment.

## 1. `payerIDs` record

> If `SERVICE` wants to get one or more types of payer identities from `WALLET` then it must alter its JSON response to the first callback to include a `payerIDs` field, as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```diff
--- If `SERVICE` wants to get one or more types of payer identities from `WALLET` then it must alter its JSON response to the first callback to include a `payerIDs` field, as follows:
+++ If `SERVICE` wants to get one or more types of payer identities from `WALLET` then it MUST alter its JSON response to the first callback to include a `payerIDs` field, as follows:

```diff
 {
   callback: String,
   maxSendable: MilliSatoshi,
   minSendable: MilliSatoshi,
   metadata: String,
+  payerIDs: {

> +    "name": { "mandatory": Boolean },

Reviewer 3: Are all of these really necessary to be in the payload? Seems excessive. `payerIDs` should be a freeform  specification requirement defined by `SERVICE`. with a schema:`{ [fieldName:string]: { mandatory?:boolean, format?:string}}`

Reviewer 2: Everything isn't necessary in the payload. Note that we're not using Typescript definitions in LNURL.
This is just listing every possible payerid.

Reviewer: If `SERVICE` requires the payer's `name` and would also like their `email` (optional), the `payerIDs` field would be:

```
payerIDs: {
  "name": { mandatory: true },  <--- if not included by wallet, service will fail the payment
  "email": { mandatory: false } <--- just a nice to have
}
```

Other fields like `auth`  that `SERVICE` does not care about are simply not included.

+    "identifier": { "mandatory": Boolean },
+    "email": { "mandatory": Boolean },
+    "auth": {
+       "mandatory": Boolean,
+       "k1": String // hex encoded 32 bytes of challenge
+    ],
+    ...other fields may be negotiated
+  },
   tag: "payRequest",
 }
```

## 2. Specifying payer identity before sending a payment

In response to seeing a `payerIDs` record in initial response from `SERVICE`, `WALLET` attaches a `payerid` query parameter to LNURL-PAY callback with value set to a JSON object:

```diff
- <callback><?|&>amount=<milliSatoshi>
+ <callback><?|&>amount=<milliSatoshi>&payerid=<urlencode({json object})>
```

The JSON object MUST have the following format:

```
{
  "name": <free form string>,
  "pubkey": hex(<randomly generated secp256k1 pubkey>),
  "auth": {
    "key": hex(<linkingKey>),
    "sig": hex(sign(utf8ToBytes(<k1>), <linkingPrivKey>)) // following LUD-04
  },
  "email": <email address>,
  "identifier": <internet identifier>,
  ...other fields may be included if supported by wallet and requested by service
}
```

Each key in this JSON object should correspond to a requested payerid from the `payerIDs` record received from `SERVICE`.

> `WALLET` CAN send any of the payer id kinds if they are listed in the `payerIDs` record. But if any is marked as `"mandatory": true` `WALLET` must send it if it can, otherwise do not proceed with the payment flow.

Reviewer 2: ```diff
--- `WALLET` CAN send any of the payer id kinds if they are listed in the `payerIDs` record. But if any is marked as `"mandatory": true` `WALLET` must send it if it can, otherwise do not proceed with the payment flow.
+++ `WALLET` CAN send any of the payer id kinds if they are listed in the `payerIDs` record. But if any is marked as `"mandatory": true` `WALLET` MUST send it if it can, otherwise do not proceed with the payment flow.

`WALLET` SHOULD NOT send payer identity types omitted in `payerIDs` record, none at all if record is not present.

## 3. Committing payer to the invoice

> If `SERVICE` requests (section 1) and `WALLET` sends a `payerid` record in the callback (section 2), the payer IDs must be committed to the metadata before the invoice is created.

Reviewer 2: ```diff
--- If `SERVICE` requests (section 1) and `WALLET` sends a `payerid` record in the callback (section 2), the payer IDs must be committed to the metadata before the invoice is created.
+++ If `SERVICE` requests (section 1) and `WALLET` sends a `payerid` record in the callback (section 2), the payer IDs MUST be committed to the metadata before the invoice is created.
`

`SERVICE` MUST append it to the metadata as it was received (after url-decoding), as in the following example:

```diff
 [["text/plain", "description"], ["image/png;base64", "AAA=="]]
+[["text/plain", "description"], ["image/png;base64", "AAA=="]]{<identity records>}
```

After doing that, `SERVICE` can proceed to hash the metadata and include that hash in the generated BOLT11 invoice as the `descriptionHash` field.

> On its own side, `WALLET` must do the same thing before hashing the metadata and checking its hashed value against the `descriptionHash` field of the invoice received from `SERVICE`.

Reviewer 2: ```diff
--- On its own side, `WALLET` must do the same thing before hashing the metadata and checking its hashed value against the `descriptionHash` field of the invoice received from `SERVICE`.
+++ On its own side, `WALLET` MUST do the same thing before hashing the metadata and checking its hashed value against the `descriptionHash` field of the invoice received from `SERVICE`.
```

> If `WALLET` sends more `payerid` fields than requested by `SERVICE`, `SERVICE` should still append everything as received.

Reviewer 2: ```diff
--- If `WALLET` sends more `payerid` fields than requested by `SERVICE`, `SERVICE` should still append everything as received.
+++  If `WALLET` sends more `payerid` fields than requested by `SERVICE`, `SERVICE` SHOULD still append everything as received.

> `WALLET` must not expect `SERVICE` to append the identity records to the metadata if `SERVICE` hadn't included the `payerIDs` record in the first response, as that would mean `SERVICE` doesn't understand LUD-18 at all.

Reviewer 2: ```diff
--- `WALLET` must not expect `SERVICE` to append the identity records to the metadata if `SERVICE` hadn't included the `payerIDs` record in the first response, as that would mean `SERVICE` doesn't understand LUD-18 at all.
+++ `WALLET` MUST NOT expect `SERVICE` to append the identity records to the metadata if `SERVICE` hadn't included the `payerIDs` record in the first response, as that would mean `SERVICE` doesn't understand LUD-18 at all.
```

JSON array may contain one or more records of the following forms:

1. `{ "tag": "name", "value": <free-form string> }`
2. `{ "tag": "pubkey", "value": hex(<randomly generated secp256k1 pubkey>) }`
3. `{ "tag": "auth", "value": hex(<linkingKey>), "sig": hex(sign(utf8ToBytes(<k1>), <linkingPrivKey>)) }` // following [LUD-04](04.md)
4. `{ "tag": "identifier", "value": <internet identifier> }`
5. `{ "tag": "email", "value": <email address> }`

> 6. other fields can be negotiated.

Reviewer: To make things more consistent with the `payerIDs` field in the request sent by the service, how about having the `payerid` parameter like this?

```
[
  "name": <free form string>,
  "pubkey": hex(<randomly generated secp256k1 pubkey>),
  "auth": {
    "value": hex(<linkingKey>),
    "sig": hex(sign(utf8ToBytes(<k1>), <linkingPrivKey>)) // following LUD-04
  },
  "email": <email address>,
  "identifier": <internet identifier>
]
```

And I also think it should be stated that this json must be then stringified (maybe remove spaces/blank chars) and url encoded. And that this **exact value** will be used later when checking the `SERVICE`'s invoice. It's not really obvious at first.

Reviewer 2: @dpad85 It doesn't have to be stringified though? Definitely url encoded, but that's expected anyway.

Agree on changing the format.

`WALLET` SHOULD NOT send payer identity types omitted in `payerIDs` record, none at all if record is not present.

## 3. Committing payer to the invoice

If `SERVICE` requests (section 2) and `WALLET` sends a `payerid` record in the callback (section 1), the payer IDs must be committed to the metadata before the invoice is created.

`SERVICE` MUST append it to the metadata as it was received (after url-decoding), as in the following example:

```diff
 [["text/plain", "description"], ["image/png;base64", "AAA=="]]
+[["text/plain", "description"], ["image/png;base64", "AAA=="]][<identity record>, ...]
```

After doing that, `SERVICE` can proceed to hash the metadata and include that hash in the generated BOLT11 invoice as the `descriptionHash` field.

On its own side, `WALLET` must do the same thing before hashing the metadata and checking its hashed value against the `descriptionHash` field of the invoice received from `SERVICE`.

If `WALLET` sends more `payerid` fields than requested by `SERVICE`, `SERVICE` should still append everything as received.

> `WALLET` must not send expected `SERVICE` to append to metadata if `SERVICE` hadn't included the `payerIDs` record in the first response, as that would mean `SERVICE` doesn't understand LUD-18 at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`WALLET` must not expect `SERVICE` to append the identity records to the metadata if `SERVICE` hadn't included the `payerIDs` record in the first response, as that would mean `SERVICE` doesn't understand LUD-18 at all.
```
Is that what you meant?
